Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to talk about even more dumb properties and methods.
All right.
So in the previous lecture, we we left off right here and we we saw how we can apply styles through
JavaScript.
All right.
But this is not the optimum way of doing.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to comment about everything and
I'm going to bring this down, bring it down a bit just so we can see this picture.
And I'm going to come in to see assess now in this style element, what I've done is I've added a clock
class that says for fun and we have background, color, padding, line height, font size and color.
Now, all of these properties can be applied on a text.
All right.
Technically, they can be applied.
And this is a class.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you another another property I've done, which allows us
to add classes to the HTML elements, even though if they don't have that clause.
So right here, you can see that this paragraph doesn't have a class.
It only has an I.D. So the way we can do this is we we we first select that element.
So this here, the element is selected.
So then what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the para and I'm going to say class list because we
want to add a class to it.
We are going to say class list and then I'm going to sit at.
So from here, I just have to insert the name of the class.
Now keep in mind, this is not a Cyesis selecter.
Basically, we just add the name of the class and the name of the class for fun.
And when I say that everything has been applied dynamically and inside the paragraph, we can see that
we have a class which is for fun.
And now this styling is better because if for any reason we have some sort of some some kind of utilities
or utility components, then if we have those, those styles will still be applied on this paragraph
because this is just a class.
And these styles, they are not in line starts.
They are just regular styles which are apply.
Take a look at it.
This is just a regular style that we have applied.
And these regular styles, they don't have that high of a specificity.
So we don't they don't have that high of a specificity.
We can change and we can override.
But as long as they are in line, we cannot change.
All right.
And don't get me wrong, we are going to use inline styles in JavaScript as well.
But we should be careful when using them because they have the highest specificity.
And this code is absolutely ugly in JavaScript.
JavaScript is not is not used to style.
JavaScript is used to make our Web pages dynamic.
At least that is one of the applications.
So doing this inside a JavaScript file is not a best practice.
The way the better way is just this.
So with one line of code, we could replicate like like 100 lines of Cyesis properties for a single
element or for multiple elements.
All right, so this is a better approach towards styling, but basically we create a class and the classes
know we're inside our e-mail and when inside JavaScript we dynamically add it to the to the element
that we want to add it to.
All right.
So this was the.
So this one I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to name it property number six.
All right.
So this is property number six, which is class list.
All right, so the next property that I want to talk about for a moment is going to be the get computed
styles, get computed styles.
Now the style.
Now there is something there is an idea and there is also practicality to it.
And in the world of stimulants, you says that any element has some pre-existing styles.
All right.
And those styles are applied by the browser.
Right.
So how can we know for sure that there are some pre-existing styles?
All right.
So let's go into our Cyesis and we see we have only stones for image.
This is commented out and only for for fun class.
So this one doesn't have any styles defined by us, by developers, so all the styles of this Sichuan,
they are all of them, their browser starts the way that you can find out where the browser stands are.
As you come to the elements tab, you grab the etch one and you come to the computer.
And in here you can see some of them.
All right.
But if you click here on the show, all you're going to see all the styles.
If they have a value, they are, for example, Buderim slice 100 percent.
This is a browser start.
All of these styles.
They are browsers, styles like this one.
There are some values like this is normal, visible, visible auto auto like the browser stars in the
world of stimulants.
VSS are also called default values in cyesis, for example, when you're working with Flex Volks Flex
Direction Row as a default value, when you change it to to column, then that default value is changed.
So this is where you can find all the browser styles which are applied.
OK.
So what I'm going to do is we are going to go into our.
XHTML as our into our.
JavaScript file, and I'm going to create another consonant and I'm going to call it image.
Props or image properties, and I'm going to say get computed style of this image image.
All right.
And we have declared our image before.
I'm just going to go ahead and comment this one out.
Common these ones out.
All right.
So we don't have anything in the dump.
So I want to grab the computed styles of this image element and I want to store it inside this image
props.
And I want to cancel that log.
The image props and let's save it, and now this is the true power of dome.
This is the true power of the document object model of JavaScript.
And this is why I cannot stress this enough, because this is so exciting.
I mean, this is why H.M.S. assists in JavaScript are called the Three Musketeers, the Trinity or or
whatever, like like the three important parts of any website.
The three building blocks of the web are H.M.S. Serious and JavaScript, and they are interconnected
as long as you know where to look.
So we just found out in a world of possibilities at the doorstep of JavaScript.
So this is this says Cyesis style declaration.
And when you click on it, you're going to see all these Cyesis styles.
Which are applied or which are not applied on that specific element.
All right.
And the cool part of this all is what is the cool part?
Is this part.
You can see that we don't have any camel casing.
These are regular Cyesis styles.
So we can use these styles as well.
Right.
So these are regular Cyesis styles, right.
Now, the job of this method, this jet element necessary to get computed style, is not to apply styles,
but to retrieve styles.
So what does this actually do?
It shows us the browser styles and also the applied styles.
All right.
So how can you how can you say that for sure?
You might ask.
So let's go ahead and let's grab our image.
Right.
And we are going to grab our image element, not image prompts the image element itself.
All right.
And we are going to tap into the world of Cyesis and we are going to give it a let's say with equal
to.
Huh, I don't know, like, let's put it to 800 pixels, let's save it.
And now you guys can see that this image has been stretched, of course, and I'm going to give it a
height as well, so the dogs do not look like cropped or anything like that.
So now, OK, this one is cropped.
Let's decrease the height to 600.
Hopefully this changes everything.
All right.
So now this is our image and these are the styles.
How can we see the top?
How can we find out what styles have been applied through this computer stuff?
So what we can do is it is super, super simple.
So first off, what I'm going to do is I'm going to consider log on our previous what was that method,
our previous method.
And let's look for them here.
So it's B, C, D, where is W?
So should we see W or not?
I think these are all browsers style, so I do not think that we can find them here.
And let's come down here and in here, I think we can find him from here, so f g h this is the height.
So the height says 600 pixels, which has been defined right here.
So where is the width, where is the width.
So w I'd touch.
Come on buddy, this is the width and the width is 800 pixels which has been defined right here.
So looking for them in this list is a bit tedious and it requires a lot of work.
What if you want to instantly grab that value.
So in that case and we want to bring it to the council as well.
So we are going to say consult the log.
We are going to grab our image props and we are going to go and we are going to go ahead and we are
going to say that height, because the tight height is actually a prop..
So when we do when we do the dot notation, the dot notation allows us to grab either the property or
the method, the differences in the parentheses.
If you provide parentheses, it's a method.
If you do not, it's a property.
Right.
So this is a property.
And now here is over 600 pixels.
So this is actually the cool part about this get computed style property.
All right, so this is this is actually a method I should have classified it as a method.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to say method.
And I think we have studied two methods before.
So this is going to be method number three.
All right.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.